276

RADo-ltECMNo,

Rada, tre. si, suma„ to serape, been done when 1oe was consta, m

chave, polisti.

Remus, i, m., a branch, bough.

Rapidum, alis, f. (rapidus, swist,)
swistness, velocity, rapidity. ,

Rapina, oe, f. (rapio, to carry off)
robbery, rapine, pillage‚depredation.

Rarus, a, um, adj„ rare, thiu, light3
feW, uncommon, unfrequent, rare.
Rari,insmall parties, here and there,
scattered, single.

Rus-us, a, um, part. (rado) scraped,
smoothed, polished, shaved.

Ratio, ends, s. (rem,) reason; a

. reason, consideration, condition3 a

design, object, plan, intention, pur-
pose, scheme; a reckoning3 an ac-
count, calculation; wisdom‚ pru-
dence; science3 a method, mode,
system; a scheme, plan3 artifice,
trick, stratagem3 manner, way, ar-
rangement,disposition, order3 trans-
action, business, affair, matter3 re-
spect, regard, concern, care; an art.
Ratio belli, the science of war, mili-
tary tactics. Habere ratimmu alicu·
jus rei, to regard-care for—be con-
cerned about -. Ea ratione, there·
fore. Ratio atque usus belli, the art
and practice of war.

Ratis, is, f., pieces of timber pin-
ned together-3 a float, raft.

Ratus, a, um, part. 4· adj. (re0r‚)
thinking, deeming, judging, believ-
ing, supposing3 steady, established,
fixed, determined.

Rauraci, orum, m., the Rauraci, a
people of Gaul, on the northern ex-
tremity of Mt. Jura: 1. 5.

Rebellio, onis, f. (rebellis, rebel-
liouS‚) a rebellion, revolt, insurrec-
tion. ’

Rebilus, i, m. (C. CaniniuS,) one
of Caesar's lieutenants in Gaul: VII.
83. He was subsequently made emma
by Caesar sor a single duytmly. Hence
it was remarAoed by Cicero that uo
ma‘n lead diued, mat no misellies laad

that leemas aeonsul ofgreat vigilance,
ποι having slepe while he was in
qffice.

Recedo, ere, essi, essum, u. (re 4·
eedo‚) to retire, withdraw, retreat,
recede, depart.

Recens, tis, adj„ new, fresh, new-
ly done or made, recent3 fresh, not
tired or fatigued, raw, inexperi-
enced.

Recenseo, ere, sut, situm, 4· sum, a.
(re 4· eemeo,) to review, survey, in·
spect, muster3 count, enumerate,
number, tell.

Reoepmcntlm, i, π. (recepto, to re-
cover back,) a place to receive or
keep things ih3 a storehouse3 a
place of refuge, retreat, shelter.

Receptus, τὶς, m. (recipio) a retreat·
ing, retreat, the power of retreating3
a refuge, place of refuge. Habere re·
ceptum ad aliquem, to be able to re·
treat to or fall back upon -. Recep-
tui came, to give the signal for a
retreat3 sound a retreat.

Reoepm, a, um, part. (recipio,) re-
ceived.

Recessus, fas, m. (recedoQ a retir- ,
ing, retreat.

Recido, ὅτε, idi, u. (re 4· cado,) to
fall back, recoil. With ad, to come
t0, fall upon, befall.

accipio, ὅτε, epi, eplum, a. (re 4,
capim to take again, get back, re-
ceive. Recipere or Recipere se, to
make a, retreat, retreat, withdraw3
retire, return, come back, also, to
recover one’s sels, recover, recover
one’s strength 3-to retake, regain,
recover3 to bring off, rescue, save3
to admit of, allow, suffer; to take,
admit or receive into.

Recito, dre, dvi, atum, a. 4· π. (re
4· eilo,) to recite, read aloud.

RediudLus, a, vem, part„ leaning,
resting on, reclining: from

Rectam, dre, dvi, alum, α. ‹5- n.

